That wraps up our discussion on
incident investigation and response.
Nice work on finishing up another section!
We've covered a lot here, so
let's take a moment to quickly recap.
First, we revisited the detection and
analysis phase of the NIST incident
response lifecycle and focused on how
to investigate and verify an incident.
We discussed the purpose of detection, and
how indicators
of compromise can be used to identify
malicious activity on a system.
Next, we examined plans and
processes behind the incident response,
such as documentation and triage.
We also explored strategies for
containing and eradicating an incident and
recovering from it.
Finally, we examined the last phase of the
incident lifecycle, post-incident actions.
We talked about final reports,
timelines, and
the value of scheduling post-incident
reviews through lessons learned meetings.
As a security analyst,
you'll be responsible for
completing some processes involved in each
phase of the incident response lifecycle.
Coming up, you'll learn about logs and
have the chance to
explore them using a SIEM.